                                    Chapter 6

      TECHNICAL ISSUES IN SITING:   INFORMATION NEEDS, PLANS FOR COLLECTING
                 INFORMATION, AND INFORMATION COLLECTED TO DATE


     Chapters 1, 2, and 5 of Volume II (now Part II of Volume I) discussed the
information needed for repository siting and development, the plans for ob-
taining the necessary information, and the information collected to date.
Most of the comments on these chapters are summarized and answered here,
beginning with general comments on information needs and the DOE's data-
collection programs (Section 6.1).   Comments on geologic, geochemical, and
geohydrologic issues are covered in Sections 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4, respectively,
and dissolution is discussed in Section 6.5.  The remaining issues of impor-
tance to long-term waste isolation--climatic changes and the presence of
natural resources--are covered in Sections 6.6 and 6.7, respectively.   Condi-
tions important to radiological safety during repository operations are dis-
cussed in Section 6.8, and environmental studies are the subject of Section
6.9.  The remaining sections of this chapter discuss the advantages and dis-
advantages of the various host rocks (Section 6.10), research and development
(Section 6.11), and peer review (Section 6.12).  Comments on a number of re-
lated issues are summarized and answered in Section 5.1.3 ("Site Characteri-
zation"), Section 5.4 ("Waste Package"), Section 5.5 ("Repository Design, Con-
struction, and Operation"), and Section 5.7 ("Performance Assessment").

     Unless otherwise indicated, all references to chapters and sections of
the draft Mission Plan pertain to Volume II (now Part II of Volume I).   For
brevity, the designations "Volume II" and "Part II" are often omitted.   In-
cluded at the end of this chapter is a list of the references cited in the
text.


                             6.1    GENERAL COMMENTS

Synopsis of Comments

     Regarding the information needs outlined in Chapter 1, the State of Maine
(73-29) asked when the "specific parameters needed" will be addressed.   The
NRC (94-61) noted that not all technical information will be straightforward
and easy to obtain, cautioning that the DOE should "not overlook the impact
that difficult technical studies could have on program schedules."   An envi-
ronmental group (44-19) said that, for the sake of credibility, the Mission
Plan should consider the possibility that some of the questions raised in
Chapter 1 cannot be answered in a satisfactory manner for any site.

     Regarding the plans for obtaining information, outlined in Chapter 2, the
NRC noted that not all the technical issues are site specific (94-75) and that
for any site studies that are started before the site-characterization plan is
issued and reviewed, the DOE should release specific plans in advance of the
studies to allow for review and comment by the NRC (94-89).  The State of


                                      -189-

