Nevada (48-68) said that it had counted in Section 2.2 ten major studies plan-
ned for completion in fiscal years 1984,  1985 and 1986, which it considered to
be  `unrealistic."

      South Carolina (72-76) commented that monitoring programs for geohydro-
logic, geologic, and ecological information are not adequately (or even mini-
mally) handled in the Mission Plan.

      The NRC (94-74) stated that the Mission Plan should adequately reflect
the ongoing DOE effort to gain a basic understanding of major phenomena that
have a bearing on the effective functioning of the repository through the
identification of issues and of tests and studies needed to resolve those
issues; the NRC (94-10) also commented that the Mission Plan does not provide
this information in sufficient detail to support a license application for a
repository.

      Utah (27-49) asked that significant unknowns and information needs for
each site (i.e., the bedded-salt sites) be identified in the Mission Plan.

      Maine (73-28) commented that much of the information needed for detailed
site investigations is also needed in earlier stages of siting and asked that
the Mission Plan indicate this or refer to the appendix of the siting guide-
lines where information needs are   `tied to stages of the siting process.'

      Minnesota (41-56), noting that most of the DOE's site review is limited
to the site itself, asked at what point key offsite issues, such as transpor-
tation, will be addressed in siting decisions.

      Texas (83-80) and an environmental group (44-17) said that the infor-
mation needs for issue 3.2 in Chapter 1 should not exclude transportation on
existing railroads and highways.

      An environmental group (67-37) objected to the footnote on page 1-2 of
Chapter 1 citing the draft National Plan and said that the information needs
cited in Chapter 1 are substantially different from those stated in the final
environmental impact statement for the management of commercially generated
radioactive waste (DOE, 1980a) and the DOE's statement of position in the NRC
"waste confidence" rulemaking (DOE,  1980a).

Response

      The specific parameters needed for the resolution of the issues listed in
Chapter 1 will be discussed in the various plans to be prepared for each can-
didate site (e.g., the site-characterization plan, the ETS implementation
plan, the exploratory-shaft test plan) and subsequent site-specific documents.

      The DOE will take into account the uncertainty in scheduling that results
from potential difficulties in obtaining some key information.    These uncer-
tainties will be considered in developing the final site-characterization
schedule for each site chosen for characterization.   All of the issues listed
in Chapter 1 will have to be resolved in order to demonstrate compliance with
the DOE's siting guidelines (10 CFR Part 960) and the NRC's technical criteria
(10 CFR Part 60).   The final judgment about the adequacy of their resolution
will be made by the NRC.


                                       -190-

