     Both regional and local impacts of repository development are discussed
in the draft environmental assessments issued for the nine potentially accep-
table sites for the first repository (DOE, 1984a-i).  The environmental impact
statement will also discuss both regional and local effects.

     As explained in Chapter 1, issue 3.2 does not apply to the movement of
waste over the national system of highways and railroads; that part of waste
transportation is governed by the regulations of the NRC (10 CFR Part 71) and
the Department of Transportation (49 CFR Parts 171-178).

     The footnote citing the draft National Plan was deleted.  The information
needs cited in the Mission Plan differ from those of the earlier documents be-
cause the information and analytical results collected during the 3 years
since the publication of the cited documents have allowed a more rigorous de-
finition of information needs.


                          6.2 GEOLOGY AND GEOMECHANICS

6.2.1  GENERAL COMMENTS

Synopsis of Comments

     The NRC's Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards (100-7) expressed con-
cern that argillaceous rocks have not been considered as host rocks for the
first two repositories.

     One commenter (44-18) suggested that the effects of structural hetero-
geneity and organics in rock be considered.   Another (10-11) asked how the DOE
will prove that the host rock is sufficiently extensive to contain all the
waste planned for disposal.  The States of Minnesota (41-58) and South
Carolina (72-69) said that a definition of the allowable limits on the repair
(e.g., grouting of fractures) of unexpected flaws in the host rock should be
included in the major information needs for issue 1.9.

     The State of Wisconsin (24-75) pointed out that there is a difference
between erosion, addressed in issue 1.4, and weathering.  The State of Texas
(83-78) asked the DOE to state the rationale for selecting 1 million years as
the period for protection from erosion, as stated in issue 1.4.

     New York State (84-3) commented on the need for considering the regional
geologic setting of each site and asked for an explanation of how generic and
site-specific data will be integrated.

     The NRC (94-66) and the State of Nevada (48-63, 48-66) objected to the
DOEs lack of concern about igneous activity in rocks that were generated by
such activity.   En addition, the NRC (94-67) indicated that focal mechanisms
should also be used in developing records of historical earthquakes.

     Additional information on tectonics was requested by several commenters.
One party (45-6) objected that the implications of tectonic changes are not
addressed.  The U.S. Department of the Interior (95-14) asked that a defini-
tion of seismic trenching be provided.  The State of Utah (27-11) listed many


                                      -192-

