Grande Ronde Basalt Formation down to the deepest of the candidate horizons
(the Umtanum).  The cores from these boreholes, geophysical logs, as well as
analyses of chemical, petrographic, and paleomagnetic properties have allowed
the stratigraphy of these horizons to be reasonably well defined.   Only six
boreholes have been drilled through the Grande Ronde Basalt beneath the
Umtanum flow, and because of the smaller number of boreholes, the stratigraphy
and the structure of the deeper Grande Ronde Basalt are more difficult to de-
fine and interpret, and the results are associated with greater uncertainties.
The sentence in the second paragraph of Section 5.2.1 was modified to more
accurately reflect what is known about the stratigraphy.

     At the Hanford site the verified thickness of the basalt, over 3 kilo-
meters, is from a single well.   The estimated thickness of the basalt in the
area of the sites is based on interpretations of geophysical data and is more
than 3 kilometers.  The only well that penetrates the entire thickness of ba-
salt and into the underlying rocks is the Shell/ARCO exploratory well in the
Saddle Mountains.  An article in the August 27 issue of the Oil & Gas Journal
speculated that the basalt is about 12,000 feet thick in the Shell/ARCO Saddle
Mountains well, but Shell has not released any data on the thickness of the
basalt in the well.

     The interbeds consist of tuffaceous volcaniclastic sediments of the
Ellensburg Formation.  This material was deposited mostly by streams draining
eastward from the Cascade Range and consists of immature tuffaceous arkosic
sandstone.  There is almost no clean ash suggestive of airfall deposition.
Most ash has been mixed with detritus, which suggests fluvial deposition.
Volcanic mud flows are commonly interbedded with tuffaceous sediments west of
the Hog Range axis, which forms the western boundary of the Pasco Basin.
Tuffaceous sediments are also present in the Ringold Formation; however, the
sediments interbedded with the basalt contain detritus and sedimentary struc-
tures suggestive of deposition by streams, which were probably reworking air-
fall detritus deposited farther west of the Pasco Basin.

     Since basalt strata in the Cold Creek syncline are covered by at least
several tens of meters of sediment, information about strain in this and other
buried synclines comes from limited borehole and geophysical data and inter-
pretations of geologic structure.   In a detailed analysis of strain in the
eastern Umtanum Ridge, Price (1982) noted that strain was most intense in
steeply dipping zones, with strain diminishing rapidly away from zones of
steep dip.  If this relationship of strain to dip on the eastern Umtanuxn Ridge
is representative of deformation in general, then strain in the Cold Creek
syncline, where strata dip very gently, should be minimal in comparison with
that in the steeply dipping parts of anticlines.

     A syncline between the Saddle Mountains and the Frenchman Hills north of
the Hanford site is being mapped in detail because it is considered a possible
analog of the Cold Creek syncline.   Detailed mapping reveals more structure
than originally found in reconnaissance mapping at a scale of 1:250,000 and
the presence of a number of tectonic-breccia zones of varying width and orien-
tation.   These breccia zones are being studied to ascertain their relationship
to major and minor structures, their persistence in three dimensions, and the
character of the filling material.   This analog study should help the inter-
pretation of the deformation in the Cold Creek syncline and may be useful in
interpreting the character of the few tectonic breccias encountered in bore-
holes in the Cold Creek syncline and at the Hanford site.

                                       -195-

